In this video, I'd like to go over the content in this section of the course.
This is a very important section since we described the installation
of the tools necessary to create, build and execute C++
programs.
We wanted to make this course accessible to as many students as possible
who want to learn C++.
So if you're running Microsoft windows,
macOS 10 or ubuntu Linux,
we have videos detailing the steps necessary to get up and running on your platform.
The following section includes videos for installing the C++
compiler and the CodeLite IDE on specific
operating systems.
Then we show you how to configure CodeLite,
so that it's using the C++ compiler we just installed.
Then we'll go over how to create a default CodeLite project template
that you can use when you need to create new C++ projects.
This will make it very easy to start new projects quickly
since all the required settings will be ready to go.
In all the videos, we use a very simple C++ program
to test the installations.
All the elements of the C++ program will be explained in detail
as we progress through the course.
In this section, just type in the program and follow along to ensure your
installation is complete.
In addition to using the CodeLite IDE,
we want to be sure that students can learn and build C++ programs
even though they may not be able to install an IDE due to hardware limitations.
So we created a section that uses just a simple text editor
and the command line tools to do just that.
If you're unable to use an IDE,
then please don't let that stop you from learning C++.
You can still use the command line just fine.
Finally, we'll look at a few websites that have C++ compilers
available that you can use to write and execute
basic C++ programs.
This has some limitations
but it's great if you're on the road or away from your PC.
All you need is a web browser
and you can run much of the code presented in this class.
Remember, websites,
software versions and tools change over time.
If there are any changes that are important,
I'll post the information in the resources section
of the specific videos.
So if a new version of CodeLite is released and it's different from
the previous version, I'll post an update in the resources section,
explaining how to use the new version.
This allows everyone to carry on using the new version
while new videos are recorded and uploaded.
Okay. So go to the videos that apply to your operating system.
We'll get started installing the tools we need to create
C++ programs. I'll see you there.